The technical business analyst's priority, is it business or IT?
What do you think it should be?
Should you, the technical business analyst, be more business or IT focused?
So before I begin this slide, what do you think?
A more business or IT focus?
On the business side of the house,
we will focus on things like why build this solution?
Is there a business case to support why this is a good endeavor?
What will the solution do for the company?
What are the business goals it will accomplish?
How will the solution work to help the business,
such as reduce costs, increase revenue or improve customer service?
Now, on the IT side of things,
you will focus on communicating requirements to IT and
having all those discussions around that,
of course, determining the options and solutions.
How will the solution get implemented?
You will need to know this since you will need to convey back
to the business what the impacts will be,
training requirements, budgets, schedules,
new skill requirements, they're all of that.
Can new technology drive new business opportunities?
Well, I sure hope so.
We will dive into this topic more on the next slide.
For me, business should be the main driver of what you do most of the time.
By representing the business needs to IT,
being the interface, the go between, the broker,
the bridge, and the master of all between the business and IT.
Those are just a few examples of course.
This is why the technical business analyst is such an
exciting position or role in a company.
You will get to understand the challenging business goals and just what
makes your company successful in the marketplace,
and, at the same time,
participate in helping shape the technology solutions to meet those goals.
Technologies can drive business opportunities as well.
So new technologies may provide the catalyst for exploring totally new business
ideas that the business may never have thought of before.
Yes,
you may normally get key business drivers from the business side of the house,
but you are well positioned to recommend new and potentially
disruptive technologies to the business.
Technology is always changing,
so there is no way I can list all the technologies you may
need to know about at this point and time.
But what you can do is try and stay abreast of the trends and how a
new technology could potentially help the business.
Since the business is not necessarily paying that
close of attention to technology, this would be your job.
Now, here are a few technologies you might want to explore.
Here are some technologies that have been clearly
driving new business opportunities.
Artificial intelligence, many businesses take up artificial intelligence,
AI technology, to try to reduce operational costs,
increase efficiency, grow revenue, and improve customer service.
Blockchain.
Many industry leaders have already achieved significant business benefits,
including greater transparency, enhanced security,
improved traceability, increased efficiency,
and speed of transactions and reduced costs.
Read how blockchain provides these benefits to learn more
about using blockchain in your industry.
Cyber security.
A lack of focus on cyber security can be greatly damaging to a business.
There is the direct economic costs of such attacks to the business,
such as theft of corporate information or disruption to trading
or even having to repair effective systems,
all resulting in financial loss.
Cloud computing.
Moving to cloud computing may reduce the cost of
managing and maintaining your IT systems.
Rather than purchasing expensive systems and equipment for your business,
you can reduce your costs by using the resources of
your cloud computing service provider.
Your energy consumption costs may be reduced, as well, of course.
Big data, and it gets bigger every day.
It's so important today, big data can affect the business's valuation.
It's a key and tangible asset that can now be gauged through
data collection and factored into valuation.
How businesses use data and the decisions they make based on data is
also going to affect success rates of companies.
The Internet of Things, IoT.
Now, IoT devices record and transfer data to monitor important processes,
give us new insights, boost efficiencies,
and allow companies to make more informed decisions.
The IoT market, which includes the hardware and software,
systems integration and data and telecom services and people,
is expected to grow to over $500 billion in the year 2021.
Now, the Internet of Things is driving a lot of data.
Well,
that's why you need big data technologies to manage and mine
and ascertain what the IoT devices are doing.
Okay.
So take a moment right now and think about each one of these,
and can your business benefit from any one of these?
Produce your own list of technologies and you will be pleasantly surprised of how many great ideas you may come up with.